~~~
Spyware Definition-
Spyware is malicious software that enters a user’s computer, gathers data from the device and user, and sends it to third parties without their consent. A commonly accepted spyware definition is a strand of malware designed to access and damage a device without the user’s consent. 

Spyware collects personal and sensitive information that it sends to advertisers, data collection firms, or malicious actors for a profit. Attackers use it to track, steal, and sell user data, such as internet usage, credit card, and bank account details, or steal user credentials to spoof their identities.

Spyware is one of the most commonly used cyberattack methods that can be difficult for users and businesses to identify and can do serious harm to networks. It also leaves businesses vulnerable to data breaches and data misuse, often affects device and network performance, and slows down user activity.

Some of the most commonly used types of spyware include:

Adware: This sits on a device and monitors users’ activity then sells their data to advertisers and malicious actors or serves up malicious ads.

Infostealer: This is a type of spyware that collects information from devices. It scans them for specific data and instant messaging conversations.

Keyloggers: Also known as keystroke loggers, keyloggers are a type of infostealer spyware. They record the keystrokes that a user makes on their infected device, then save the data into an encrypted log file. This spyware method collects all of the information that the user types into their devices, such as email data, passwords, text messages, and usernames. 

Rootkits: These enable attackers to deeply infiltrate devices by exploiting security vulnerabilities or logging into machines as an administrator. Rootkits are often difficult and even impossible to detect.

Red Shell: This spyware installs itself onto a device while a user is installing specific PC games, then tracks their online activity. It is generally used by developers to enhance their games and improve their marketing campaigns.

System monitors: These also track user activity on their computer, capturing information like emails sent, social media and other sites visited, and keystrokes.
Tracking cookies: Tracking cookies are dropped onto a device by a website and then used to follow the user’s online activity.

Trojan Horse Virus: This brand of spyware enters a device through Trojan malware, which is responsible for delivering the spyware program.
